immigration let's talk about it in the
last two years our population has grown
really fast like Baby Boom fast and
increasingly Bad actors like fake
colleges and Big Chain corporations have
been exploiting our immigration system
for their own interests so we're doing
something major we're reducing the
numbers of immigrants that will come to
Canada for the next 3 years today I'm
going to let you in on what happened
where we made some mistakes and why
we're taking this big turn
there are two kinds of immigration in
Canada the one you probably think of
most is permanent immigration like when
families come to Canada to settle and
call at home every year the government
determines the right number of permanent
residents that we want to admit that's
how it's been done for decades but a
plan that only talks about permanent
immigration misses the other pathway
temporary immigration temporary
residents are people who come to Canada
for a limited time time like
International students temporary workers
and so on they come to work a job or go
to school when the job is done or when
they finish their degree most return
home some apply to stay as permanent
residents but most return home so back
to this year's plan historically
Canada's annual immigration plan just
looked at permanent residents the number
of temporary students and workers that
we admitted each year was left to the
demands of the economy was usually a
small proportion of our population so
it's never been a part of the long-term
immigration plan but after the pandemic
our economy came roaring back quickly
and we needed a lot of workers fast
Canada is in the middle of a huge labor
shortage temporary foreign workers
became such a significant part of our
Workforce that it would be a mistake not
to include them when we plan our
immigration levels so this year we did
exactly that for the first time we laid
out a plan that sets targets for both
permanent and temporary residents this
way we're getting the full breakdown of
people coming into our country so we can
prepare the homes and infrastructure
needed to support them like I said
immigration is based on demand when we
set our targets we look at every
province in territory we ask the premier
what are the gaps in your Workforce is
your population growing or getting older
we field calls from businesses CEOs
economic experts all sharing their
thoughts on where we should set our
targets we've had a chronic shortage of
labor for the for the last decade it is
the number one issue of all
manufacturers across Canada so we think
it needs to be more you know push the
pedal to the floor to bring more people
into Canada because Ontario is facing a
generational labor shortage 380,000 jobs
are going unfilled it's no surprise that
every sector has different wants and
needs when it comes to immigration but
after the pandemic they all came to us
with the same message after 2 years with
closed borders we need more people more
workers fast so we brought in more
workers and it was the right choice it
worked our economy grew restaurants and
stores reopened businesses kept running
but most importantly in spite of lots of
economists predictions we avoided the
worst case scenario a recession but some
saw that as an opportunity to profit to
game the system we've seen way too many
large corporations doing this government
says the program has been used to get
around hiring Canadian workers in some
instances far too many colleges and
universities used international students
to raise their bottom line there are the
diploma equivalent of puppy mills that
are just churning out diplomas there is
Fraud and Abuse and it needs to end
because they could charge these students
tens of thousands of dollars more for
the same degree and then there are
really bad actors who outright exploit
people who Target vulnerable immigrants
with Promises of jobs diplomas and easy
Pathways to citizenship promises that
would never come true looking back when
the post-pandemic boom cooled and
businesses no longer needed the
additional labor help as a federal team
we could have acted quicker and turned
off the Taps faster now it is time to
make the adjustments to stabilize the
immigration system that we need and get
it working right for Canadians for right
now immigration is primarily a federal
job we have the levers to re it in so we
are this is a big change a major cut to
immigration reducing permanent
immigration Levels by at least 20% new
string of measures to clamp down on
temporary immigrants that means a
decrease in international students
temporary forward workers Canada's new
immigration plan is straightforward
lower the number of new immigrants
coming into Canada both temporary and
permanent we're prioritizing permanent
residents with the skills we need like
healthcare workers for our hospitals and
construction workers who will build more
homes and those temporary residents who
are already in Canada some will apply to
stay in Canada as permanent residents
since they're already here established
and working the added pressure put on
communities is very low or they'll leave
Canada when their temporary residency
expires reducing our population some
temporary residents may turn to our
Asylum system when their visa expires as
a shortcut to stay in Canada those
claims will be analyzed and processed
and if their claim fails they'll be sent
home between the amount of people coming
and going we'll effectively pause
population growth for the next 2 years
then from 2027 onwards it'll balance out
and slowly start increasing again at a
sustainable Pace in fact that gets us
back to the population growth path we
were on before the pandemic this pause
is going to give our economy and our
Comm communities the chance to catch up
with things like our plan to build
Millions more homes that's not stopping
but now we'll have a little more
breathing room as we build we'll see
more corporations investing in Canadian
workers and youth rather than relying on
cheap foreign labor our cap on
International students is already
bringing rental prices down in big
cities and as we keep that cap in place
rents will keep coming down we're making
the system work for Canadians and for
newcomers rather than for the big box
stores chain restaurants immigration
consultants and Sham colleges that
exploit it immigration is a great thing
and we're lucky that so many people
dream of coming to our country
fulfilling that dream depends on having
a good job a decent place to live and
health care that you can access when you
need it we have to make sure our
population isn't getting out ahead of
those things